# ssFix

ssFix is a program repair technique that leverages existing, fault-related code to produce patches (at the source level) for bug repair.

## Running Requirements

+ Linux environment
+ JDK 1.8
+ Apache Ant

## How to Build ssFix

Run `ant compile` to compile all the source files.

## How to Run ssFix

+ In the script file `run`, change the value of `proj_dir` to the *absolute* path of your ssFix directory (if you haven't done so).

+ Run the script file `run` with at least the following 8 arguments (if possible, use *absolute* paths):
  * `-bugid`: the program id
  * `-dependjpath`: the dependency jar path of the faulty program (you should create a single jar file of the compiled faulty program including the test files and all dependencies)
  * `-projdpath`: the path of the faulty program's directory
  * `-projsrcdpath`: the path of the faulty program's source directory (this is where all the source files are located)
  * `-projbuilddpath`: the path of the faulty program's source-binary directory (this is where all the binaries of the source files are located)
  * `-projtestbuilddpath`: the path of the faulty program's test-binary directory (this is where all the binaries of the test source files are located)
  * `-outputdpath`: the output directory
  * `-ssfixdpath`: the directory of ssFix

The following arguments are optional:
  * `-tsuitefpath`: the file containing the class names of all test cases, separated by semi-colons. If not used, ssFix will scan the test directory and create a file including all the test class names. A patched program produced by ssFix needs to pass all the test cases included in all the test classes. (NOTE: Currently, ssFix only yields a patched program if it can pass all the test cases. Please make sure the failed test cases are only bug-related. We strongly encourage a user to provide this file.)
  * `-tpackage`: the names of suspicious packages where a fault is likely to be located. (If there are more than one name, connect them by colons.) If not used, ssFix will consider all packages to be suspicious.
  * `-failedtestcase`: you may provide the full class names of the failed test cases. If more than one exist, put them together connected by colons. If not used, ssFix will test the faulty program against all the test cases to figure out the failed ones.
  * `-maxfaultylines`: the maximum number of the top suspicious faulty statements to be considered for repair. Default is 30.
  * `-maxcandidates`: the maximum number of the top retrieved candidate chunks to be used for repair. Default is 100.
  * `-faulocfpath`: the path of the fault localization result file. If provided, ssFix will directly use the result in the file. Otherwise, ssFix will perform fault localization to create a result file.
  * `-faulocaddstacktrace` (no argument): should ssFix use the stack trace information for fault localization?
  * `-usesearchcache (no argument)`: should ssFix use the cached search file (generated earlier) to obtain candidates?
  * `-runparallel (no argument)`: should ssFix run in parallel for patch validations?
  * `-deletefailedpatches (no argument)`: should ssFix delete failed patches?

Note that ssFix will print the running information to screen. You can re-direct the information to a file, then you will get a log file.

## Output

The generated patches can be found under `outputdir/bugid/patches` where `outputdir` and `bugid` are the output directory and the bug id you specified.

Under the `patches` directory, there are directories whose names start with `f` each corresponding to a located fault (a target statement). For example, `f0` contains patches generated for the top-suspicious statement (with its local context), `f1` contains patches generated for the second-suspicious statement. Under the `patches/f*` directory (e.g., `patches/f0`), there are directories whose names start with `c` each corresponding to a used candidate chunk. For example, `c0` contains patches generated by using the top-related candidate chunk, `c1` contains patches generated by using the second-related chunk. Under the `patches/f*/c*` directory (e.g., `patches/f2/c3`), there are directories whose names start with `p` each corresponding to a patch. For example, `p0` is the first generated patch that was tested, `p1` is the second generated patch. Under the `patches/f*/c*/p*` directory (e.g., `patches/f3/c0/p3`), you may find a single `.java` file. This is the patch file generated. Using the `diff` command on this file and the original file from the faulty program, you will notice what has been changed.

To find the specific directories where you can find a patch, look at the printed running information (on the screen or in the log file you created through re-directing).

